run_analysis readme============*course project for getting and cleaning data*###Introductionrun_analysis.r consists of a series of commands that are designed to read in and clean the UCI HAR Dataset  and output two datasets:dataset 1 : combinedData.txt. This is a large merged dataset with descriptive variable and activity names. Dataset2: averageData.txt. contains the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.The resulting data sets can be read back into r using the following commandsread.table("combindData.txt",header=TRUE)read.table("averageData.txt",Header=TRUE)###Source dataThe UCI HAR Dataset can be downloaded from:[https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip](https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip)the data results from experiments into Human activity recognition using smartphones. Reference:Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012The run_analysis script uses the following files:1. X-train.txt2. y_tranin.txt3. subject_train.txt4. X_test.txt5. y_test.txt6. subject_test.txt###Description of codeThe code is broken into 7 steps1. This checks for the necessary files within the working directory. If they are not found it downloads them from source placing a zip file in the working directory. It will then unzip the file. 2. The code in this section reads in all the required data into 6 separate data frames.3. The 6 data frames created in the previous step are combined into a single dataset using cbind and rbind. the resulting data.frame is called combined. 4. This step extracts the  columns which contain means and Standard deviations from combined creating the dataframe required. The variable names are the changed to make them descriptive.5. The numbers in the Activity column are replaced with descriptive activity names. The data frame required now matches the combindData.txt dataset. 6. This step creates the second dataset of averages. The original Activity and Subject columns are removed from this new data set and the newly created group.1 and group.2 columns are relabelled Activity and Subject. The resulting Averages data frame matches the averageData.txt data set. 7. In the final step the two datasets, outlined in the introduction, are exported. 